---
title: "AGT Notes: Week - 1"
date: 2025-05-19
math: true  
tags: [algo-game-theory]
---

# ISP Routing Game


Two ISPs, say 1 and 2, 
- The first type of traffic  from node source 1 belonging to ISP 1 and is targeted towards node destination 1 belonging to ISP B. 
- The second type of traffic from node source 2 belonging to ISP 2 and destined towards node destination 2 belonging to ISP 1.
-  C and NC are peering points. Traffic between the two ISP networks can only flow either through C or NC.

 - Cost for source 1/source2 to C = 1
 - Cost for NC to dest 1/dest 2 = 1
 - Cost for source 1 to NC / source 2 to NC = 3


This is pretty analogous to prisoners' choices in PD. One is *"selfish"*, i.e. it is better for the player themself but hurts other player,  The cost matrix is analogous to the one for PD. 



# Pollution Game 

- Each country has the choice to PASS rule "CONTROL POLLUTION" or NOT PASS.
- Cost for a country to control its pollution: 3
- If a country doesn't control pollution, i.e. it pollutes, it adds 1 to the cost of every country, including itself (say, health costs because of pollution, etc.)
- So, of *n* countries, if *k* don't control pollution and *n-k* control pollution, then:
    - cost for each pollution controlling country is : (3) + (*k*) x 1 = *k* + 3
    - cost for each country that pollutes = k
 
 $\therefore$ The only stable solution would be no country controlling their pollution. 
 >(Otherwise countries controlling pollution would be tempted to switch to not control to improve their payoff)
 > If they all controlled pollution, on the other hand, the cost would have been just 3 for each country.


# Tragedy Of The Commons 

 - n players using a shared channel with max capacity=1. Channel's quality detetoriates as the more of the channel's capacity is used by everyone. Player $i$ can choose some $x_i \in [0,1]$ where $x_i$ is the fraction of the channel they want to use for transferring their info. 
 - if $\sum_{i}x_i$ >1, all players get nothing 
 - if $\sum_{i}x_i$ <1, then each player will get a benefit value = $x_i(1-\sum_{i}x_i)$ 
 -  Look at single player $i$. Let $x_i = x$,  $\sum_{j \neq  i}x_i$ <1, and $\sum_{j \neq  i}x_i = c$. 
 - The payoff of player $i$ is $x(1 - c - x)$. To get max payoff for player $i$, put $\frac{d}{dx} \left( x(1 - c - x) \right) = 0 \implies x = \frac{1 - c}{2}$
 - We want a stable set of strategies . All players are playing this optimal selfish strategy given the strategies of all other players. 
 - So $x = (1 - c)/2 = (1-(n-1)x)/2 \implies x = 1/(n+1)$. So payoff for each player will come to be $1/(n+1)^2$. 
 - Total payoff for all players is = $n$ x $1/(n+1)^2$  so approximately $1/n$
 - On the other hand, say the total bandwidth used ($\sum_{i}x_i$) = 1/2 , then sum of payoffs of all players comes to be 1/4, which is around ($n/4$) x (the sum of payoffs in the stable situation), which is a considerable larger total payoff value. 
 - Aaand that's why the solution is a "tragedy" :( ---> the players sharing the resource *overuse* the resource so the *total value of the shared resource gets dramatically decreased*. (sort of like the pollution game) 
